       and home-made trousers; but others were very picturesque.
       The women looked pretty, except when you got near them,
       but they were very clumsy about the waist. They had all full
       white sleeves of some kind or other, and most of them had
       big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering from
       them like the dresses in a ballet, but of course there were
       petticoats under them.
       The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks, who were
       more barbarian than the rest, with their big cow-boy hats,
       great baggy dirty-white trousers, white linen shirts, and
       enormous heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all stud -
       ded over with brass nails. They wore high boots, with their
       trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair and
       heavy black moustaches. They are very picturesque, but
       do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would be set
       down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands. They
       are, however, I am told, very harmless and rather wanting
       in natural self-assertion.
       It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz,
       which is a very interesting old place. Being practically on the
       frontier—for the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina—
       it has had a very stormy existence, and it certainly shows
       marks of it. Fifty years ago a series of great fires took place,
       which made terrible havoc on five separate occasions. At
       the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent
       a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the casualties
       of war proper being assisted by famine and disease.
       Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden
       Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be thor - 
       ::: 
       oughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all I 
       could of the ways of the country.
       I was evidently expected, for when I got near the door
       I faced a cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peas -
       ant dress—white undergarment with a long double apron,
       front, and back, of coloured stuff fitting almost too tight for
       modesty. When I came close she bowed and said, ‘The Herr
       Englishman?’
       ‘Yes,’ I said, ‘Jonathan Harker.’
       She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in
       white shirtsleeves, who had followed her to the door.
       He went, but immediately returned with a letter:
       ‘My friend.—Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxious -
       ly expecting you. Sleep well tonight. At three tomorrow the
       diligence will start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for
       you. At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and will
       bring you to me. I trust that your journey from London has
       been a happy one, and that you will enjoy your stay in my
       beautiful land.—Your friend, Dracula.’
       4 May—I found that my landlord had got a letter from
       the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the
       coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he
       seemed somewhat reticent, and pretended that he could not
       understand my German.
       This could not be true, because up to then he had under -
       stood it perfectly; at least, he answered my questions exactly
       as if he did.
       He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, looked
       at each other in a frightened sort of way. He mumbled outs
       ::: 
       that the money had been sent in a letter, and that was all he 
       knew. When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and
       could tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife
       crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at
       all, simply refused to speak further. It was so near the time
       of starting that I had no time to ask anyone else, for it was
       all very mysterious and not by any means comforting.
       Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my
       room and said in a hysterical way: ‘Must you go? Oh! Young
       Herr, must you go?’ She was in such an excited state that
       she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew,
       and mixed it all up with some other language which I did
       not know at all. I was just able to follow her by asking many
       questions. When I told her that I must go at once, and that I
       was engaged on important business, she asked again:
       ‘Do you know what day it is?’ I answered that it was the
       fourth of May. She shook her head as she said again:
       ‘Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what
       day it is?’ On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:
       ‘It is the eve of St. George’s Day. Do you not know that
       tonight, when the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things
       in the world will have full sway? Do you know where you
       are going, and what you are going to?’ She was in such evi -
       dent distress that I tried to comfort her, but without effect.
       Finally, she went down on her knees and implored me not
       to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting.
       It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable.
       However, there was business to be done, and I could allow
       ::: 
       nothing to interfere with it.
       I tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that
       I thanked her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must
       go.She then rose and dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix
       from her neck offered it to me.
       I did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman,
       I have been taught to regard such things as in some measure
       idolatrous, and yet it seemed so ungracious to refuse an old
       lady meaning so well and in such a state of mind.
       She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the
       rosary round my neck and said, ‘For your mother’s sake,’
       and went out of the room.
       I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am wait -
       ing for the coach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix
       is still round my neck.
       Whether it is the old lady’s fear, or the many ghostly tra -
       ditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but
       I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual.
       If this book should ever reach Mina before I do, let it
       bring my goodbye. Here comes the coach!
       5 May. The Castle.—The gray of the morning has passed,
       and the sun is high over the distant horizon, which seems
       jagged, whether with trees or hills I know not, for it is so far
       off that big things and little are mixed.
       I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake,
       naturally I write till sleep comes.
       There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who
       reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I left Bis -